Switch to have client-server first (#10)
hazelcast-guides/istio: doc/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc

== What You’ll Learn

> This guide explains how to use Hazelcast in the Istio environment. You'll learn how to set up Hazelcast cluster and use it with Hazelcast client. Then, you can also see how to deploy an application with embedded Hazelcast.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide explains how to use Hazelcast in the Istio environment. You'll learn how to set up a Hazelcast cluster and connect it with Hazelcast client. Then, you will also see how to deploy an application with embedded Hazelcast.
```

----
$ kubectl get pods
NAME                  READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
hazelcast-cluster-0   2/2     Running   0          60s
hazelcast-cluster-1   2/2     Running   0          44s
hazelcast-cluster-2   2/2     Running   0          27s
----

Deploy Spring Boot Application with Hazelcast Client:
----
kubectl apply -f hazelcast-client.yaml
----

Check logs and see that Spring Boot service is connected to the cluster:
----
$ kubectl logs hazelcast-client-0 hazelcast-client
...
Members [3] {
	Member [10.16.2.14]:5701 - 51274b4d-dc7f-4647-9ceb-c32bfc922c95
	Member [10.16.1.15]:5701 - 465cfefa-9b26-472d-a204-addf3b82d40a
	Member [10.16.2.15]:5701 - 67fdf27a-e7b7-4ed7-adf1-c00f785d2325
}
...
----

Let's now run a container with curl installed and set an environment variable to point to Spring Load Balancer.

First, find the IP of Spring Boot Service:
----
$ kubectl get svc springboot-service
NAME                 TYPE        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)   AGE
springboot-service   ClusterIP   10.19.250.127   <none>        80/TCP    3m29s
----

> Launch a `curl` container inside Kubernetes cluster and set service IP as environment variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Launch a `curl` container inside Kubernetes cluster and set the service IP as an environment variable:
```

----
kubectl run curl --rm --image=radial/busyboxplus:curl -i --tty
SPRINGBOOT_SERVICE=10.19.250.127
----

> Put a value to the cluster:

Reviewer: "podName"s should be `hazelcast-client` instead of `-embedded` here in the following snippet.

...
----

In this sample, you were able to deploy a Spring Boot based microservice with Hazelcast client-server topology in Istio Environment.

> Clean up deployments with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clean up the deployments with the following commands:
```

----
kubectl delete -f hazelcast-client.yaml
kubectl delete -f hazelcast-cluster.yaml
----

=== Hazelcast Embedded

> Switch to embedded code sample directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Switch to the embedded code sample directory:
```

----
cd hazelcast-embedded
----

Embedded code sample can be built and pushed to your own Docker Hub or some other registry via following command but that is optional:
----
mvn compile com.google.cloud.tools:jib-maven-plugin:1.8.0:build -Dimage=YOUR-NAME/istio-embedded:1.0
----

Instead, you can use the already pre-built docker image `hazelcastguides/istio-embedded:1.0`.

****
If you want to build your own image, then do not forget to update `hazelcast-embedded.yaml` with your own image.
****

Deploy Hazelcast Embedded Sample:
----
$ kubectl apply -f hazelcast-embedded.yaml
statefulset.apps/hazelcast-embedded created
service/hazelcast-embedded-headless created
service/springboot-service created
----

> You can check that the application started and that Hazelcast successfully formed a cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check that the application started and Hazelcast successfully formed a cluster.
```

----
$ kubectl logs pod/hazelcast-embedded-0 hazelcast-embedded
...
Members {size:3, ver:3} [
        Member [10.12.1.6]:5701 - 644e6bbf-335a-410b-80ab-0cb648dbc772
        Member [10.12.2.8]:5701 - 0ab13148-b6bb-477e-970b-0b5c226ed2aa this
        Member [10.12.3.4]:5701 - 72f56c90-f55e-490c-b3c0-d40fe970557f
]
...
----

> When you list the services used, you will see that you have two Kubernetes Services: `hazelcast-embedded-headless` and `springboot-service`. `hazelcast-embedded-headless` is used to handle Hazelcast cluster discovery operation so it has no need to have an IP address. `springboot-service` is the loadbalancer that is used to receive http requests and forward it to an underlying Pod to process it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you list the services used, you will see that you have two Kubernetes Services: `hazelcast-embedded-headless` and `springboot-service`. `hazelcast-embedded-headless` is used to handle Hazelcast cluster discovery operation so it has no need to have an IP address. `springboot-service` is the loadbalancer that is used to receive http requests and forward them to one of the underlying pods to respond.
```

...
----

> In this sample, you were able to deploy a Spring Boot based microservice with Hazelcast Embedded in Istio Environment. Let's clean up deployments with the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this sample, you were able to deploy a Spring Boot based microservice with Hazelcast Embedded in Istio Environment. Let's clean up the deployments with the following command.
```
